Reviewer: 1 

Comments to the Author 
This paper deals with the numerical study of a suspension of rigid
particles in concentrated regime. A key difficulty when using a boundary
integral formulation to simulate this problem is dealing with contacts
between the rigid particles and domain boundary. Especially, the
concentrated suspension poses a formidable challenge for the simulation.
This paper contributes significantly to this issue by treating all
inter-particle interaction implicitly(globally implicit instead of
locally implicit) and augmenting the simulation with constraints that
prevent any two bodies from coming within a certain small distance from
each other. The repulsion force is also balanced in the system. Using
this novel time stepping method, the simulation shows high fidelity with
condensed suspension. I find the approach to be compellingly motivated,
clearly presented, and well demonstrated. I have only a few minor points
that might be addressed in revision: 

1. In section 3.2, it says that one Lagrange multiplier is used. Are you
using one contact volume constraint among all particles or one contact
volume constraint per contact region? 

2. The locally implicit time stepping breaks on the Taylor-Green flow
even with dt = 1e-8. You can also decrease the time step size with
globally implicit time stepping without using contact constraint. Is
there a stable time step size comparison between globally implicit time
stepping without contact constraint and globally implicit time stepping
with contact constraint? What is the ratio between time spent on the NCP
solve stage and the time spent on globally implicit time stepping
without NCP solve? 

3. Typo on equation 7e, the torque L. 

4. Typos around page 8 line 27 and line 34 'd_j' in Rotlet and the
torque L? 
